One thing we noticed when styling
up our cards was there was this
weird thing where the tags were
sometimes the wrong size and
debugging these types of things
can be a little bit hard.
If you ever look at the cards
at the smaller screens too,
we won't see that happening.
So if you run into something where layouts
are sort of behaving in an unexpected way,
dev tools are definitely your friend.
It's what you want to use.
And we can see that here,
like all the little tags they look
fine when we're at the smaller size.
But as we get to this larger size and
there's two columns,
all of a sudden things
are a little bit weird and
different where we have this bigger
space coming there and you can see it,
especially I think on this one,
the edible as well.
And then if we get to three columns,
we might even see it more on
some of them compared to others.
And it can be really hard to understand
what's actually going on when these types
of things are happening.
But if you're using Grid or Flex,
which you're probably using, and
you probably won't run into
these situations without them,
I would use the grid inspectors
that come built into the browser.
Because it just helps you visualize
what's actually happening With
the grid or Flexbox.
You have the Flexbox inspectors.
So if I come on this one, if you just
hover over with the little selector here,
you can see what the grid looks like.
But you also get these
little pills that show up.
And if you click on the pill,
it's going to highlight it there for you.
And we can highlight that one, and
we'll do the third one too, just so
we compare the three together.
And you'll notice that the grids
are actually different from one card to
the next one.
The spacing here for Morel is like
there's empty space under it,
where the top one's a lot tighter, and
then this one is actually bigger, and
that's what's causing these
little pills to stretch.
And yeah, so we get these differences
that are coming between each one of them.
And then immediately that means that it's
our grid that's causing an issue for
this type of thing There's a few
different solutions you could use.
There's ways of trying to wrangle grid and
trying to get it to work the way you want,
but they do have to be kinda specific,
because grid,
there's two things actually
that are going on.
One of them is the parent is also a grid.
So because the parent is a grid.
All the items are stretching to
fill up the space that's there.
And because this one has more
content than the one next to it,
because we have three lines of text here,
so it's just taller in general.
This one is stretching to fill that, and
then because that one's stretching
the column or the rows that the grid is
creating has extra space that
those things can live inside of.
And so when these types of things happen,
it's just like,
what's the best solution for it?
Again, you could do some finagling
with grid to get it to work and
just shrink those sizings down, but you
have to be quite specific, because you're
setting you'd have to like, say which
one of the rows is bigger or smaller.
You can use intrinsic sizes like auto or
min content and other things to do it, but
you're still doing it.
Row by row and
on something like a card that you
just want it to go anywhere you want.
It's probably not the best solution.
And what I would say is, if you run
into something like this, don't feel
like you have to go with the original
thought or the initial thing that you did,
be very open to potentially refactoring,
just changing the approach you did.
As long as that thing
works across the board,
it doesn't cause any other
issues along the way.
That's what we're gonna do in this case,
because with what we want to do in
this layout is we just want, instead of
the element, the grid creating rows and
then the content filling those rows,
which is how Grid works.
It's why I love Grid because you
control through the parent the children
fit into it.
But Flexbox is the one we saw it with the
navigation where the elements just take up
the space they need to take up.
So in this case, you might go,
well, if grid isn't doing the job,
maybe on these cards, I actually want
to switch it to a display flex and
do a flex direction of column.
If I hit Save, we'll see that
it actually fixes the problem.
This is happening because Flexbox,
again, on the main access,
items are just gonna be as
big as they need to be.
They're not filling up any space.
Each thing, if it's bigger,
it's bigger, if it's smaller,
it's smaller, and it does its own thing.
The children are what are in
control of the layout.
The reason I went with grid initially
is because I needed even spacing in my
columns, and I didn't want to
have to change my Flex direction,
because it was an extra
declaration I didn't need.
But when you're doing display flex and
switching the direction or
doing a display grid and just using gap,
they're very similar in how they work, but
there are a few different
things that can happen.
So if one of them isn't working,
try doing the other one, see what happens.
And if it's still something you're
fighting with, well then you sort of get
into the weeds and you start
playing with it a little bit more.
But sometimes a really quick
thing like this can be a big win.
And trust me, I've wasted so much time
on these types of problems trying, like,
convinced that my first
idea was the best one.
Please don't be scared of
making changes along the way.
If the first thing that you
set up was working, but
then you start running
into trouble with it.
Always think about the easiest
solution you can come up with first,
instead of forcing the thing that
you're using to actually work.
The other cool thing, and this would
happen with grid or with Flexbox,
this option is available to us is with
these notes now you can see very clearly
that the taller items versus the other
ones, this one's taking up a lot of space.
This had all that extra room.
That's why the items were stretching out.
The rows were getting a bit bigger
to fill up all that extra space.
Now all that extra space is at the bottom.
We happen to have this handy little card
note that's down here at the bottom.
And if we look at the design, the note
is always all the way at the bottom,
and let's see if we can find one there.
There's a bigger space here, so the note
is always stuck to the bottom of the card,
and we're leaving that other space there.
One thing people don't use enough of
with Flexbox is taking advantage of
how margin autos work for.
Because when you have Flexbox or
grid margin, auto works on the top and
bottom, unlike in the regular world or
the regular block format.
So we can come here and
say that we just do a margin,
we'll do block start to stick
with our logical properties.
But if you just do a margin top,
it would be the same thing.
And we can say that it's Auto, and
then it pushes them all the way down to
the bottom, and
it's adding the empty space to the top.
Again, if you're in a block formatting
context, this won't work, but
as if you're in grid or Flexbox,
margin, auto will push things around.
It's a little bit easier to use
a Flexbox just because with grid,
it's doing it within its own cell,
rather than it just pushing
all the empty space around.